And we're here today to talk about
preprocessing principles and we're very,
very lucky to have, I think,
one of the premier folks in this area,
Ben Waggoner.
He's from Ben Waggoner Digital.
Everybody knows Ben.
Ben's been around for a long, long time.
We're going to go for about an hour.
I'll hold all questions to
the very end of the session.
And then when we do the questions,
please come up to the microphone so we
can catch your voice on the recording.
Thank you.
OK.
Let's dive in.
So how many people saw this
session at the 2003 show?
Not too many of you.
OK.
That's good.
Because I only thought I was
doing this about five days ago.
So it's the exact same slides,
but the content will be new.
So I'll bring my own spin to things.
So it works now?
It's you?
And there's me.
And it's all good?
That's who I am.
Wonderful.
OK.
So today we're talking
about preprocessing.
And you can think about preprocessing
as everything you do between the
source frame of video and the frame
that actually goes into the codec.
So pretty simple definition here.
And let me walk over here so
everyone can see this stuff.
So big, this stage up here.
The focus is going to be on web video.
I'll mention MPEG-2 stuff here and there.
Who cares about preprocessing for DVD?
I'll be talking a fair amount
about preprocessing for DVD now.
I have nothing but interactive.
Who cares about preprocessing for web?
For CD-ROM?
Anyone doing preprocessing
for high definition?
Oh, got one here.
Okay.
That's cool stuff.
We'll talk about that.
I spent far too much time working
with damaged D5 tapes in HD last fall.
The first half of the session is going
to be me talking about slides and showing
some screenshots and that kind of stuff.
The second half is I'm going to
be doing some demonstrations.
I've got a lot of source clips here.
I've got a lot of tools here.
I'm going to let you guys pick the
demonstrations you guys want to see.
The more extroverted among you,
start planning what your
questions are going to be.
The focus here is just hands-on
stuff that's going to let you get
better quality video up on the web or
your DVD or however you're doing it.
We're trying to increase the bang
for the bit out of our digital media.
So, we're going to define preprocessing
in a little more detail,
explain why it matters,
talk about some of the core techniques,
I'm going to do some demos of
some cool stuff on the Mac,
my power work over there,
and mainly web video,
but some about DVD as well.
And I'll do more of that as planning on,
because you guys care about it a lot.
There are actually some pretty cool
tricks for DVD you can do these days.
Like 704 wide encoding,
we'll talk about that.
So, preprocessing, I mentioned before.
You think of your video
stream as a series of frames.
You've got a DV, you've got a whole bunch
of 720 by 480 frames.
Who here mainly works in PAL?
Any of you guys?
Okay.
So, 720 wide by either 480
or 576 tall frames.
You know, your web video is a 320 by 240.
You've got a DVD, it's probably the same
size as your video source.
You know, whatever you want to do.
So, you're doing everything to
transform the source frame into the
optimum output frame for the codec.
back.
This is both the most
artistic part of compression,
because stylistically you
have to make some stylistic
decisions off in the process,
trade-offs, that kind of stuff.
It's often the hardest part.
I mean, knowing what the data,
you want to get the right data right,
you just type in the data
rate value you want to have.
Knowing what's the right luma
level for having it to look good,
that requires some thought.
I probably spend, on a typical project,
where it's going to be kind
of a high volume stuff,
maybe 90% of my time in the
compression process on preprocessing
for challenging content.
Just because the other
stuff's pretty easy.
You know what codec you want,
you know what data rate you want,
you know what the audio should be,
but you've got to kind of tweak and
tweak and tweak preprocessing if
you're incredibly quality obsessive,
which I recommend you all become,
because there's too much
bad web video out there.
So, why it matters.
It's all about maximizing
the bang for the get bit.
You want to get the maximum
communication value.
You want to get the maximum value per
unit data possible to your end users.
And it really does matter a lot.
I mean, correctly processed video at 200
kilobits can be way better than badly
processed video at 1,000 kilobits.
So, you can always think of it as like,
you're almost like you're buying
your customers more bandwidth
by treating your bits better.
So you want to make sure every
pixel has data that matters,
every bit is something you care about,
and you're not wasting bits and
pixels on things that aren't actually
communicating to the end user.
So, let me just cut a couple frames here.
Let's see if this is scaling correctly.
Okay,
so this is just from a movie trailer.
This is from the Biker
Boys movie trailer.
Anyone see Biker Boys?
Neither, but I have the trailer.
Oh, there we go.
Any good?
No, I don't think so.
That's the problem.
But I have the movie trailer.
It's often good to work with not
very interesting content when
you're experimenting with things.
You don't get distracted by
plot and that kind of stuff.
So, this is from Biker Boys.
Let's go with what the
source frame looks like.
Pretty typical interlaced frame.
Projectors kind of
squish in a little bit.
They get the idea here.
And because it's interlaced,
you wind up having the
two different fields.
There's motion, all that kind of stuff.
Now, if we preprocess it correctly,
a couple of things will
go from that to this.
and the shape of the frame
should be changing a little bit.
All right, hold on.
If we take the source frame,
don't modify it at all, encode it,
we get that.
This is 800 kilobit source in 3 Pro.
And that looks terrible.
That's the word, terrible.
Because codecs, modern codecs,
based around DCT or
something else like that,
do really good with gradients.
But sharp edges take a
lot of bits to encode.
So when you're using, say,
the thin horizontal lines of fields,
you wind up having that
be very hard to encode.
And almost all your bits wind up trying
to code the lines you don't care about,
as opposed to coding the content you do.
So same data rate, preprocess the frame,
we get that instead.
So is that perfect?
No.
But obviously,
from an end user perspective,
that is a lot worse than that.
Same bit rate.
So for the end user,
they just get a better experience,
no sacrifice.
And that's not really
an exaggerated case.
I mean, I see a lot of people trying
to do this on the web,
and I wish they would not.
One of the reasons why QuickTime has
such a reputation for having high
quality delivery technology is really
because the people at Apple who
do the QuickTime movie trailers
are so much more confident than
the people who do the movie trailers.
You can find it at
windowsmedia.com and realmedia.com.
It's much more about
preprocessing than the codecs.
They give you quality.
The most critical feature at
Mission Tier is deinterlacing.
You've seen video before.
Your even lines and your odd lines
contain information that's temporally
separated by half a frame duration.
If you're at 30 frames a second,
the two fields will have an
image a 60th of a second apart
if it's interlaced video.
Obviously, it's progressive video.
You don't have that going on at all.
Anyone here not grasp interlaced video?
Who's mainly a video person here?
Mainly a computer person?
All right.
Does anyone not grasp
interlaced at this point?
All right.
Okay.
You'd be too embarrassed
to tell me if you were,
but at least I can now claim I asked.
So,
and what happens is that one frame you
saw where when you have a lot of motion,
areas where there's a lot of motion,
you wind up with this
kind of crosshatch effect.
In areas where there
isn't a lot of motion,
it looks normal.
Computer display back
is always progressive.
So if you're going to a computer device,
it's always progressive.
Projectors are pretty
much always progressive.
There really aren't very many truly
native interlaced display devices
that are being designed at this point.
We have like legacy televisions
and that kind of stuff,
but clearly everything is turning into
a progressive display device and have
interlaced content that's just getting
converted to progressive on playback.
So the future is progressive,
is my feeling.
And if you're delivering
for any kind of web codec,
you need to deinterlace it because
none of the web codecs we care
about support interlaced mode.
If you leave it interlaced, one,
it just looks stupid.
Even before you compress it,
it looks stupid because
someone's throwing a baseball.
Instead of seeing one baseball,
you see two baseballs that
have half their lines to it,
and it's very confusing.
And also just because the codecs find
those sharp lines on the edges of
the moving objects so hard to encode,
almost all your bits
wind up getting cut off.
So you're going to have a lot of
interlacing content being spent
on the stupid part of your image
and very few are left for actually
making your image look good.
So big degradation in quality.
Of course, progressive content doesn't
need to be deinterlaced because
it's already progressive.
And if you're delivering
on DVD with MPEG-2,
because that's also a fielded medium,
you're just going to
keep the same field mode.
So if you have interlaced source,
you're making DVD,
you're going to keep it
interlaced throughout.
If you have progressive source,
you're making a progressive MPEG-2
file for the optimum results.
And these days, on most modern Macs,
DVD player will always be
in the middle of the screen.
So you automatically deinterlace
on playback of interlaced content.
A lot of older systems,
putting your graphics
card doesn't always do it.
I'm not sure what the
actual rule is on that.
But it used to be that the
Mac DVD player couldn't play
interlaced content very well at all.
But it seems to be a lot
better in more recent versions.
The basic method of de-interlacing,
if you will, is just, okay,
I've got my even lines and my odd
lines have a different image in them.
Well,
I'll just throw out all my even lines,
I'll throw out all my odd lines,
and then process the image from there.
So if you have a 720x480 db frame,
essentially you're just throwing
out half the lines and you're
left with a 720x240 db frame,
and then it gets stretched
or squished or whatever,
processing like any other kind of
normal Photoshop style image processing.
And that works.
The problem is you're throwing
away half your image data.
And if you're doing like
little small web video,
that's not a problem.
Like QuickTime Broadcaster
does that internally.
You know, if you're doing 320 by
240 or less for broadcast,
not a huge quality drop.
But if you're trying to
go to bigger frame sizes,
you can actually wind up with
a lot of compression artifacts.
So if you're going from,
because your skidding
has to get stretched,
so if you're going to do a 480 line
out from what's internally a 240,
you wind up doubling the height with
the typical scaling blocky artifacts.
So if you're really doing deinterlacing,
what you want to be doing is what's
called adaptive deinterlacing.
And all the tools we care about
these days support some flavor
of adaptive deinterlacing,
lots of different names.
Basic idea of adaptive deinterlacing
is to detect the parts of
the frame that are moving.
And
[Transcript missing]
It was half the resolution
of the baseball.
But if someone's throwing a baseball
and they've got a big static
background-- the fence or whatever
the background-- the fence won't get
the interlace and it'll remain sharp.
And that works well
for our visual system.
We can either detect motion or detail,
but we can't really
see fast moving detail.
So it's a nice setup.
Some occasionally, it would guess wrong,
but most of the modern implementations,
99% of the time,
is going to give you the right result.
Sometimes, like scrolling credits,
you might see some kind of weird
results that have to be interlacing.
Probably the worst case.
So try not to have scrolling credits.
I've actually, sometimes,
just gone through and
re-implemented the credits.
Just typed them in again and
re-rendered them in progressive
just to get around that problem.
Now the most important
thing for you NTSC folks,
for film content,
and you PAL people can happily
and pridefully ignore this part
because you don't have this problem,
is inverse telecine.
So,
film runs at exactly 24 frames a second.
Video runs at not exactly
30 frames a second.
It really runs at 29.97,
and each of those frames
has two fields in it.
So, when film gets converted to
video in a telecine machine,
to NTSC video, what happens is what's
called 3-2 pull-down.
So, the first frame of film
becomes three fields of video.
The next frame of film
becomes two fields of video,
3-2-3-2, and it's 3-2 pull-down.
And that basically works
to get your 24 images,
become 60 fields per second,
and you're good to go.
It works about as well as you'd expect.
Of course,
the motion is never quite smooth.
Some source frames will
last three fields of video,
and other ones will last
two fields of video.
So,
motion that would have been very smooth
in the beginning would have been a little
bit jerky because the duration of each
frame playback would be a little bit off.
And that's why if you
watch movies on PAL,
a movie on PAL,
horizontal motion and pans
and that kind of stuff,
always looks a little bit smoother
than the same movie would look in NTSC.
The way that PAL conversion is done
is that just the 24 frames a second
are sped up 4%, 25%. And it just
remains 25 frames a second progressive.
And that's so easy,
and I should move to London because
half of my life is dealing with
NTSC weirdnesses like this.
But we've got to do it right,
and it's hard to do,
and that's why we can make money
charging for doing video work.
So, what you wind up with when
you've created a file with this,
and you've seen this a lot,
is a file where you'll see
three progressive frames and
two interlaced frames repeating.
And I'll show you a sample
of that in a few minutes.
And that's an easy way to test.
So, you can go to the
Word and QuickTime Player,
go through frame by frame
in a section with motion.
You'll see three progressive frames,
two interlaced frames, three progressive,
two interlaced.
And that's what you'll see.
And the nice thing with that is
if you have a tool which hasn't
inversed TELS in the algorithm,
and we have several on the Mac,
it'll be able to reverse that process.
Instead of having to deinterlace
it and throw image data out,
it's just able to restitch
the original source frame.
So,
it's able to reassemble both fields into
the original 24 frames a second video.
And that's great for two reasons.
One, it just, you know, it's, we don't,
we keep the full image data.
And second, we're able to restore
the original time base.
So, when we output,
we can actually encode at 24
frames a second instead of
doing the 3-2 pull-down thing.
So, actually, we get smoother motion,
same source on computer playback that
we would have had on the video playback.
Because every frame will have the same
duration of exactly 24th of a second.
Now, one complexity is when
you do the transfer,
the film is really slowed down to
23.976 frames a second to match
the way that 60 compares to 59.94.
Details don't really matter that much.
But for most tools,
if you're encoding with
using inverse TELSINI,
it doesn't support changing time.
You have to actually encode
at 23.976 frames a second.
It's a magic number.
Other tools will let you
change the time base.
You can easily switch that around.
And...
If you have film kind of content,
that's pretty much any music video,
movie trailer, feature film,
primetime drama,
those are all going to be content
that was created either in a film
or the 24p high definition camera.
And if you have content that's like that,
that winds up with 3D2 pulldown,
you absolutely want to
have this available.
This pays off hugely in
terms of output quality.
One complexity is when someone
has source that's done on video,
but then it's edited as
source that came out as 24p.
You think it's edited in a fashion
where it's not keeping track of
where the original frames were.
Now Final Cut is trivial.
You just have a 24p project,
take a 24p source,
it'll do it frame accurate,
and when you export it with 3D2 pulldown,
it'll keep what's called the cadence
of the 3 and the 2 consistent.
However, if someone just takes so much to
tell us they need video files,
puts them in a Final Cut,
add a video frame rate project
to an interlaced 29.97 file,
when they do edits, they're not going to
wind up putting edits.
So it's not going to be exactly
where the edits would have
been in the film originally.
And then when you take that into a tool,
you can wind up with issues where it just
can't figure out where the frames were
because of what's called the cadence.
So instead of getting the 3232,
you make it 323232132323232223,
kind of weird pattern as that,
where video edits get dropped in.
And some tools just completely fail,
like After Effects when
given that kind of content.
Other tools like Cleaner
deal with it pretty robustly.
Ideally, you just have content
where it's done correctly.
Cropping.
Cropping is a place where
I see people messing up a lot.
Especially,
you'll see a lot of web video out
there while there's a few pixels
of black on the left and the
right or on the top or the bottom,
something like that.
The reason about that is video monitors,
televisions, don't show the edge of the
video signal by definition.
I mean, a consumer TV does not
have an underscan mode.
You just wind up with a safe
area around the edge that you
know is going to get left out.
Obviously, when you play back on
a computer on a screen,
it's going to give you
every single pixel.
The upper left-hand corner pixel
is going to be shown on the screen,
or else it's horribly miscalibrated.
Because of that,
when you're converting from
content composited for video,
there may be junk around the
edge of the screen that would
never be seen on a television,
but that would show up when you look
at the same frame on a computer.
And the simple thing
there is to remove that,
crop it out.
and very many of you want
to crop out edge blanking.
That's going to be with the thin
black lines at the top of the
bottom or the left or the right.
Often DV source has no blanking at all,
but typically analog source is going to.
And sources being captured at 486
lines tall is almost certainly going
to have a few black lines at the top.
The lower the resolution
you're going to go to,
the more you can crop.
Because when we shot with the safe area,
which is the region that's known
to work in all televisions,
no cinematographer is going
to put critical content within
10% of the edge of the screen.
Because they know that plenty of systems
aren't capable to... consumers are going
to have TVs that are going to either
give you a distorted image or no image
at all at the very edge of the screen.
So they're not going to put
anything critical there.
Your lower third text is not
going to be intruded into the
10% boundary around the screen.
The actor's heads aren't
going to be in there,
all that kind of stuff.
So the lower the
resolution you're going to,
you can actually crop pretty
aggressively into the safe area,
making the foreground
objects a little bit larger.
The next thing you want to
do is crop out letterboxing.
There's no point in sending
black bars to a customer,
for most stuff.
Certainly not for web video,
because you can make
your web video any size.
If you leave any kind of black
bar in there from letterboxing,
you're just spending bits and
CPU cycles on playback on nothing.
Much better to just crop
those out and call it done.
And also because many codecs,
especially at low bit rates,
give you artifacts with sharp lines,
that very sharp black line of
letterboxing winds up messing
things up a little bit.
You often get distortion around that top.
When you go into DVD, of course,
DVD only supports up to 16x9 anamorphic.
So if you have any kind of film source
that's more than 16x9 in aspect ratio,
like most films are like
1.85 to 1 or 2.35 to 1,
you're going to need to
leave in some letterboxing,
and that's inevitable with DVD.
But for web video,
you're going to need to
leave in some letterboxing,
and that's inevitable with DVD.
But for web video,
you're going to need to
leave in some letterboxing,
and that's inevitable with DVD.
For web video, you never need to have
letterboxing in your video.
Just a reference there.
So this is the 5% boundary
here called action safe.
That's the 10% called title safe.
So the general rule of thumb
is for the action safe area,
motions in this area should
be able to be seen as motion.
Anything out here is fair game.
It may or may not be presented.
Anything in here should be
able to see it kind of moving,
but if it's text,
you might not be able to see it because
it'll be distorted around the edge.
So the title safe area,
the image should be pretty clear.
I mean, you're not going to get any
distortion at all theoretically.
So text should be visible,
all that kind of stuff.
So there's never going to be anything
critical outside the action safe.
You should assume everything inside
title safe is going to be critical.
And depending on the content,
somewhere in here is kind of the range
between where things get critical or not.
And you can just kind of look at that.
If you can imagine,
let me turn the laser thing.
There we go.
I got laser pointer.
If you look at the bounding box there,
if you're doing like a little
like 160 by 120 web movie for
modem use or GVP kind of stuff,
the difference between
having a frame that shows,
there's all this other stuff.
And the drum is kind of neat and,
you know, his head.
But if you just crop down to that,
you can see his hands is better,
his facial expression is better
and it can help out a lot.
Then scaling.
Scaling is taking what's our-- or
after we've cropped our source,
basically crop is telling don't
take these pixels outside this
box into consideration when
you're doing your scaling.
And then the bitmap,
this change in size to the output bitmap
actually gets handed off to the codec.
And two things.
One is, especially for web video,
you need to make the video
smaller to play back on the web.
And two,
you're also going to be correcting
for aspect ratio in here.
One thing that just typically freaks
out web and computer people is I start
talking about non-square pixels.
Because from the computer world,
the idea of a non-square pixel is
like talking about a square wheel.
But the video world,
all the professional video formats use
pixels that are rectangular in shape.
So 720 by 480 could be either a 4 by 3
aspect ratio or a 60 by 9 aspect ratio.
But if you just looked at 720 by 480,
a square pixel, that would actually be
a 3 by 2 aspect ratio.
And that never actually occurs.
So any kind of DV file
is always distorted,
either squished or
stretched horizontally,
depending on what the format is.
When you're going to a web video
format that's going to be square pixel,
and almost all of them are
going to be square pixel,
you need to be able to correct for the
fact that the source is non-square pixel.
You have to make it two square pixel.
You have to either stretch it
or squish it in order to make
sure you correct for that.
The basic goal is if
on the video monitor,
there was a circle,
on the computer monitor, on playback,
there's after compression,
you want there to be circles as well.
and uh... that's pretty straight,
that's the goal.
You see a lot of stuff
where things are about,
stretched about ten percent
too wide on the web.
Quite common.
People do, people figure, okay,
720 by 480, I'll cut it in half size,
it'll be 360 by 240, and there we go,
and I'll put it up on the web.
You can assume,
anytime you ever see a 360
by 240 web video file up on,
someone did it totally wrong,
because they did not get
the aspect ratio correct.
If you have four by three source,
you want,
you want to have your output resolution
in square pixel also be four by three.
So, four by three source,
a 320 by 240 would be good,
because 320 divided by 240 is,
goes down to four by three.
Six by 480, five by 384,
anything where you have four units
wide by three high is going to work.
If you do 360 by 480,
everything's going to
be ten percent too wide.
If you deal with actors very much,
when you make them
about ten percent extra,
ten percent more fat,
they complain a lot.
So, bad win there.
And your circles are ovals,
all that kind of stuff.
So,
you just want to make sure that you're,
we're going to square
pixel output format.
You want to make sure that your
output resolution matches your,
your output and your
source frame aspect ratio.
So, two,
two great examples for web video are,
you're coming from 720 by 480,
typical DV content.
You want to have a 320 by 240,
or four by three.
And if it's a 16 by nine source,
432 by 240 works just fine.
So, the, you're picking the output,
and the only difference here is the
aspect ratio of the source file.
The resolution is 720
by 480 in both cases.
And if we're doing PAL,
these are both good numbers as well.
Because, again, even, PAL is 576 by 720,
but it's also either 4 by 3 or 16 by 9.
So, you need to have a 4 by 3 or
16 by 9 output frame size.
Some codecs like, don't like,
don't like odd numbers
and that kind of stuff.
As a rule of thumb,
as long as height and width
are both divisible by 16,
you're in pretty good shape.
With Sorenson and MPEG-4
and that kind of stuff.
MPEG-2 has a few very specified frame
sizes it supports for DVD stuff.
So you just have to pick one of those.
And typically when you're
doing a DVD encode,
you don't have to worry
about this at all.
You're just gonna stay at,
you're not doing any scaling at all.
If it's a 16 by 9, 720 by 480,
you're gonna go to a 16 by 9, 720 by 480.
There are a few cases like
if you have a 720 by 486,
for example, you'll need to crop from,
you know, the 486 down to 480.
It's really important when
you're converting from a 486
source to a 480 line source,
you don't scale it, but you crop it.
Because the 486 is actually grabbing
three more lines out of the,
I mean six more lines out of the
video signal than the 480 does.
So if you scale it,
you'll get a little bit of a distortion.
And a little bit loss of
image quality as well.
The, the, if you have a 46 source,
like a, you know, like a SDI capture,
something like that,
wanna make a DVD out of it,
you wanna crop four lines off the
top and two lines off the bottom.
You may be tempted to
crop three and three,
cuz that sounds the right numbers.
But if you,
if you crop an odd number of lines,
depending on the tool,
you may or may not wind up
reversing your field order.
So as the odd lines become even lines,
and then when you play back,
things go higgledy-piggledy.
So much better to just
pick four at the top,
two at the bottom.
You don't have to worry about
those changes happening.
And also the quality of your
scaling algorithm matters as well.
Professional encoding tools we use,
you know,
assign or make you the kind of scaling,
you just do like a quick time export,
you know, for a quick time player.
Go for a really big file
and a really small file.
You'll often get a little bit
lower quality scaling just cuz,
you know, it's quick time.
Quick time's not meant as a professional
encoding tool in the player itself.
Compressor will give you a much better
result than the quick time player will,
the exact same settings,
because these are higher
quality scaling algorithm.
Okay.
So when we're authoring for web video,
or anything really, our goal is,
if we're going to scale,
we only ever want to scale down.
Because any time you scale up,
you're interpolating.
That's like going into Photoshop or
After Effects and trying to make
something bigger than it was.
And it always gets soft,
and it will often get blocky.
It's not a good experience.
When you're shrieking down,
you maybe lose some detail,
but the resulting image
will at least be sharp.
So let me just kind of walk
through a scenario here.
If you have a 720x480,
you're doing a non-adaptive deinterlace,
or if you have content where
the entire frame is moving,
and if you have a case where the
whole video frame is moving at once,
adaptive deinterlacing
does not pay off at all.
Because all adaptive deinterlacing
does is it doesn't deinterlate the
parts of the frame that aren't moving.
If the entire frame moved,
you're just going to have to
eliminate one of the two fields.
If we did a safe area crop of 10%,
that would take us down to a 7.5% drop.
If we did a safe area crop of 10%, that
would take us down to a 6.48x216 size.
And then we would convert
it from there to a 320x240,
which seems like going from
a 720x480 by a 320x240 should
be scaling down by a lot.
But after we've deinterlaced,
after we've cropped,
we're actually scaling up vertically,
even though we're going
that way horizontally.
Pre-processing is one of the most
important aspects of video processing.
When working with interlaced,
vertical is vastly more important
and tricky than horizontal is.
You have all the horizontal
you could possibly want,
but the vertical is really
what you're trying to preserve.
It's down to figuring out what
you're trying to preserve.
Typically you're going to try to preserve
as much vertical detail as you can.
You typically don't want to crop even one
extra line of vertical you don't need to,
and then just the
horizontal is necessary.
So, when you're going to
320x240 or higher from NTSC,
or 384x288 or higher with PAL,
you want to crop as little as possible.
You're definitely always going to crop
out any head of blanking or letterboxing
because there's just no data there,
but you don't want to crop any
extra stuff in the safe area.
And you want to use adaptive
deinterlacing if it's a
true interlaced source,
and if it was a film
source with 3-2 pulldown,
you definitely want to use
inverse telecine and restore
the true progressive mode.
And with inverse telecine,
even if you have a frame that's
fully in motion because it's just
restitching the original source frames,
that's going to work for you just fine.
Next is luma adjustment.
And luma is basically but not
quite the same thing as brightness.
And I recommend you read
Charles Poynton's book if you want
to care about what the difference is.
You can sort of think about
video filters in two classes.
There are filters that affect luma,
brightness,
and filters that affect chroma, or color.
And best to think about them separately.
And typically you're going to do a lot
of work on luma for a lot of cases,
but typically chroma,
you don't really mess with it very much
because it tends to survive the process.
And also, we see mainly luma,
so that's where it pays off.
And the classic luma
filters are contrast,
brightness, and gamma,
or the levels filter in After Effects and
tools like that are also just luma.
So this is a complex issue now.
If anyone's been doing
QuickTime for a while,
you probably have it in your head that
you have to raise the gamma a bunch when
you're encoding on a Mac for PC playback.
Anyone doing that?
Do you know that rule of thumb?
You guys all knew?
All right.
You know what I'm talking about.
So if you were doing all that,
and if you didn't know about that,
you can not feel bad because you
largely don't have to do that anymore.
So there are two classes
of codecs in QuickTime,
the ones that will correct for gamma
on the fly and ones that won't.
So for example,
if you use the Sorensen Video 3 codec,
if you code that file on a Mac and
play it back on a Windows box,
it'll appear darker on a
Windows box than it will on a Mac.
If you use the MPEG-4 codec,
it'll appear the same brightness
on a Windows box as it will on a
Mac because that particular codec will
automatically correct for the gamma.
This is confusing, unfortunately.
So you have to know which
codec you're going to do.
That's one of the reasons
I recommend that if you're
doing QuickTime for Mac users,
use Sorensen because it's a better
codec and all that kind of good stuff.
But if you're really trying
to make a QuickTime file for
a cross-platform audience,
the MPEG-4 codec has the
advantage that you're able to,
it'll correct for its gamma for it,
it won't appear too dark on PC.
And it's also possible to use
QuickTime Movie Alternates to make
different versions of the file with
different gamma for Mac and Windows,
and Movie Alternates to
automatically switch between them.
So you can switch
between them on the web,
but that's for a different class.
So the two, let me kind of walk
through the filters there.
First, we have brightness and contrast,
and these are often grouped together.
Brightness basically exaggerates how
different the thing is from gray.
So you have an exact middle gray, sorry,
that's contrast.
Brightness just shifts
the entire luma range.
It just like adds X amounts.
You can do a brightness of plus 20,
every pixel will become
20 units brighter.
So pixel value zero will become 20.
pixel value 200 will become 220.
People get in trouble with brightness,
because people say,
"I want my video to look brighter,
so I'll turn the brightness
up." And it's actually almost
always the wrong thing to do.
You virtually never want to actually
raise brightness as a filter itself.
If you want to have the video
seem perceptually brighter,
you're going to use the Gamma
Filter we're going to talk about next.
Because brightness just
adds to the entire range,
what was black, well, it can't be black.
If you had just one unit of brightness,
what was black of zero becomes one,
and all of a sudden,
your black becomes sort of a dirty gray.
So if you're using brightness filters,
you're almost only ever going
to use it with negative values.
And the goal of using the brightness is
to make elements that should be black,
like white text in a black
background for title card,
or fade to back, that kind of stuff.
You might turn the
brightness down a little bit,
just so that it becomes
all the way down to zero.
Now, typically,
we have rendered graphics,
like you're rendering out
from Final Cut or whatever
with a black background.
It's going to stay black throughout.
You don't have to worry about that.
But if you have any
kind of analog source,
those little luma values for each
pixel will be a little bit randomized.
So even if when it was rendered,
they're all zeros, it goes out to beta
SP and comes back again,
you get some zeros, some ones,
some threes, some fives,
that kind of stuff.
So you can just use
brightness a little bit,
say brightness minus five.
The fives go down to zero.
The twos still go down to zero.
The zeros stay at zero.
And all of a sudden, a noisy background
becomes all the way black.
So that's a negative brightness,
a slight amount,
can really help make it crisper
and add some more vibrancy to it.
And also,
if you have a case where you have a
black background that's really noisy,
by making it really black, I mean,
a big rectangle with a number zero over
and over again is very easy to compress.
If you have totally random analog noise,
that's actually kind of hard for a codec.
So it actually will encode
better by doing that.
Contrast exaggerates how
different a pixel is from gray.
So at a total mid-gray,
contrast has no effect on.
Absolute black,
absolute white has the most effect on.
The closer you get to
either black or white,
the more effect contrast
is going to have.
Now, a few years ago,
when you're doing encoding
with QuickTime for the web,
you almost always had to add a plus
27 contrast value in order to get
your blacks to come out as black,
coming from a video source
to an output source.
The good news is now QuickTime handles
all that in the background.
So even if so, I still see people who
are still doing this,
and they wind up getting like
a double contrast effect,
and they get really
crushed blacks and whites.
So again,
with really clean digital content,
you normally don't need
to add contrast anymore.
But that is useful for analog source,
because again, that helps push the blacks
a little bit more to black.
And if you have a little
bit of analog noise,
it can make the whites
into a flatter white,
and that'll just seem a little
more vibrant and can encode better.
So when I'm using these filters,
it's almost always because I'm
trying to get my blacks blacker.
My general rule of thumb is I'm going
to use one unit of brightness for every
unit of contrast I'm going to have.
So if I have a choice between
using a minus 10 brightness
to get my blacks black,
or a minus 5 brightness plus 5 contrast,
the combination of plus 5 minus 5
will give me the same black effect,
but it'll leave whites about the same.
So it won't make the images as dark if
I use the brightness filter overall.
So I'll take a look at showing
some of that stuff later on.
But it's a rule of thumb.
You don't want to use only brightness
or only contrast to crush your blacks.
You want to use a combination of them,
and that'll leave the rest of the
luma range a little more intact.
Other LumaFilter we care about is Gamma.
I give them in this order because
all truly virtuous processing
tools put the GammaFilter
after Brightness and Contrast.
Because when you laboriously
use Brightness and Contrast
and your blacked out is zero,
you want it to stay at zero.
If you have Gamma after that,
Gamma's not going to leave it at zero.
You have the GammaFilter
before Brightness and Contrast,
you wind up having the GammaFilter
changes where the zero lands,
and it gets much more complex.
Anyone out there making
compression tools?
GammaFilter is the inverse of contrast.
It has the most effect at the middle
grade and has no effect in the extremes.
Video is the place to start.
The complexity here is that Macs by
default use a gamma value of 1.8.
Video by default uses a value of 2.2.
Windows machines use
something between 2.2 and 2.5,
and it's not really defined.
It used to be a big problem to
make different files for Mac and
Windows for all this kind of stuff.
The codecs inside QuickTime that use
what's called the 2VUI color space will
automatically correct the local gamma.
So if you play back the file,
it'll store it in the local gamma.
If you play back the file,
If you play back internally 2.2,
you play it back on a Mac,
it'll just assume it's 1.8.
Play it back on a Windows machine,
it'll assume it's 2.5,
and play it back correspondingly.
The complexity is it's not actually
reading whatever the gamma value it is.
If you've gone into your
monitor's control panel and
specified a different gamma value,
it's going to ignore that value.
It just assumes every Mac in
the world's a gamma of 1.8.
If you told the system differently,
it doesn't care.
Same thing with Windows.
It has no way to actually
get the real value.
It just assumes it's a 2.5 value.
But still, it's a good thing to have.
And so the good news is if you
want to make a single file that
looks the same on Mac and Windows,
use a 2VUI codec,
which MPEG-4 is the best
distribution option right now.
If you were using Sorenson,
you want to make a Sorenson file on a
Mac that will play back on Windows right,
you do need to add about a plus
30 gamma for it to look identical
Next kind of filter we
look at is noise reduction.
And noise reduction is kind
of like a smart blur filter.
The idea behind that is to try to take
out parts of the image that aren't image,
but are noise.
I mean, grain or random analog stuff.
Blur those out,
but try to keep the actual
content like sharp lines,
text, all that stuff intact.
And these are hard things to do.
I mean, even the best algorithms will
blur more than you want them to,
but it's better than just throwing a
Gaussian blur over the entire image.
The way different tools
implement this vary a lot.
You got, you know,
some have like things called
grain killer or grain suppress,
which can work for some kinds of noise.
They have also temporal
noise reduction filters.
It varies a lot.
The thing is, if you have source that's
got really bad analog noise,
you're pretty much hosed.
These filters can take you from mediocre,
from like bad to like
nearly mediocre in quality,
but you're never going to actually
be able to get good quality output by
using noise reduction if it's noisy.
It's better than nothing,
but it's much better to
have noise reduction.
It's much better to have
clean source to begin with,
and you can't ever fake clean source.
Kind of like you can never make high
definition for real out of standard def.
Next up is audio normalization.
For the most part, audio does not require
a lot of preprocessing,
especially if it's something
that's mixed for TV or DVD,
something like that.
That's going to encode pretty well
for the web at reasonable bit rates.
The one thing I often want
to do is audio normalization.
If you have a clip where the
overall level is just too low,
what normalization will do is it
will find the loudest single sample,
and then it will either raise
or lower the overall volume,
keeping the dynamic range intact,
but just changing the overall amplitude.
to a specified value.
And typically, minus 3 dB is good for
most modern codecs.
Some QuickTime tools use the
default about minus 6 dB,
because the old QDesign 1 codec had
trouble with things that were near peak,
but you don't care about that anymore,
so minus 3 is just fine these days.
You don't want to go all
the way to 0 dB peak,
because there are some codecs
that will just... When you're
codecs at approximation,
you can wind up having to try to
give a digital value that is not
possible to express with a codec,
which can give you a
little audible distortion.
So it's a good rule of
thumb to go to minus 3 dB.
You might use some other filtering.
And typically,
these are kind of going beyond
the realm of audio processing
and preprocessing off to like,
you know, you're doing some kind of cool
audio work to clean up bad
source audio restoration stuff.
Doing compression,
basically making the quieter
parts of the audio louder,
or even the loud parts loud.
You're targeting a 3GPP
kind of playback device.
A playback on a cell phone, you know,
subtle dialogue is not going
to be audible for most people.
So often, limited dynamic range
there can help a lot.
Notched filters,
we've got like hum and that kind of stuff
in the background can work quite well.
Same with noise removal.
Your compression tools aren't going
to have this kind of filtering
in them for the most part.
So if you have clips you need to
apply this kind of stuff with,
you're diving into some
kind of pro audio tool.
[Transcript missing]
This is the interactive portion of it.
We've got about 36 minutes left here.
I've got FilmSource, I've got NTSC,
I might even have a
couple of Palo Clips here.
I've got every compression
tool known to humanity.
Anyone have a preprocessing project
they're working on with a particular
tool they want to see how to do?
Or that kind of stuff?
Someone got a question for me?
Have you demonstrated
one of these techniques?
Some of this will be on microphones.
You mean,
if we go to the microphone back there,
so we can get it recorded in audio?
Hi, I'm Scott Thompson from NewTek,
and I'd just like to see some DV source,
maybe,
recompressed down to maybe 320 by 240.
Okay, do you have a picker tool you use
for doing that kind of processing?
Nothing in particular.
I use MediaCleaner once
in a while if I do that,
or something like that.
Sure, we can dive into Cleaner.
This is Cleaner 6.
I don't know if anyone from Discrete's
been around to the show at all.
We haven't had a new... It's
like a beta of Cleaner 6.02.
It's about a year old now,
but that's the last thing we saw of it.
I've actually had a
real release of Cleaner,
even a point release,
for over a year now.
I fear Cleaner may be done,
but it's still useful for a lot of stuff.
They actually have a pretty good
design for tram preprocessing off.
This clip here is called NASA.move.
It's a pretty interesting one here.
[Transcript missing]
It has blanking on the edges here.
See the little black
line there a little bit?
And it's also letterboxed.
So, first thing we want to do is we want
to be able to crop out that stuff.
So, this is a 4x3 source.
If it was mostly just a 720x480,
we'd get an image like that.
When I say about cleaners,
we could tell it to, okay,
show it to me as a 4x3 source clip,
and it'll show it to me correctly.
If it's 60x9,
you could flag it like that as well.
I'll need to assign a preset to it.
First thing I'm going to do is crop it.
This little crop filter here.
All I need to do here is
grab it and draw a box.
[Transcript missing]
"It's like some archival footage.
Often you'll have things where it's
the frame will vary a little bit.
There's a spatial.
See right here in this frame,
even though all the
other frames are good,
there's actually a little bit more
letterbox in this frame here or there.
So I actually have to go
a little bit tighter here.
One thing you have to watch out for,
and I'm going to see if this
monitor is off at the very edge,
you see a little bit of distortion.
You can see that the first
line of video is a little bit
wider than the line before it.
So you don't want to crop at least
one pixel from the top and bottom just
to get outside the distortion range.
It'll look a little bit funky.
Your top and bottom lines
are often a little bit off.
So here we've cropped in about one
or two lines from the start of it.
And that's grabbed us
our whole thing there.
All right, so.
I'm cropping unconstrained
because I didn't-- yeah,
you can also just do a 16 by 9.
If I was going that to DVD,
I would definitely do a 16 by 9.
But I don't know if this is quite-- yeah,
it's about 16 by 9 there.
Yeah, you can do it either way.
So in this case, if you know you want
output to exactly 16 by 9,
you can set it in that value.
Or also, you can even do a custom
aspect ratio if you happen to
know it's a particular thing.
In this case, we know it's 16 by 9.
And we can just do a box like that.
and this is one of the cropping out a lot
of other frames that we don't need to.
Most compression tools only
let you do global settings,
you have to do setting overall.
If you really need to do a
lot of tweaking per thing,
I tend to dive into After Effects and
do all those filters there,
if I need to do different
processing on a per frame basis.
Which ends up being pretty
labor intensive and expensive,
but you know.
So that's how we set the crop up,
and the processing side
is pretty straightforward.
Let's just say I'm making a
I would say, first, deinterlace.
I want to make sure I have
the adaptive mode on.
That gives me the adaptive deinterlace.
Image size, 320 by 240, like that.
Cleaner, by default,
has a sharpen filter turned on.
You do not want to use a sharpen
filter for most preprocessing.
Sharpen makes it a little
crisper before you encode it,
but sharpen adds noise as well.
It will typically give you more
artifacts on playback because it
will tend to exaggerate any noise
as well as make edges sharper.
So always leave sharpen off.
The adaptive noise reduction
on Cleaner is pretty good,
so you can leave that on.
Also, you have these filters here.
Look at gamma, brightness, and contrast.
The default settings are somewhat random.
They were designed for Cleaner 5,
and Cleaner 6 is a different
processing mode for how it does video.
So actually,
you wind up having different values.
It's a great little utility you get.
Let's see what we can get with MacOSX.
I use all the time for
this kind of stuff.
It's called Digital Color Meter.
If you've got MacOS,
I think it's from 10.1 on.
It just comes free with the OS.
and what it does is you just point
at a place in the screen that will
tell you the RGB value of that point.
And Cleaner really ought to
incorporate this built into it.
It would be very useful, but it doesn't.
So what we can do here is we can just go
over here and look at our values and see
how they look and all that kind of stuff.
And we can say, like,
let's pick a frame like this.
[Transcript missing]
This is a preview window here.
Hello, did I not?
Where are we?
What's the problem here?
Quick time.
Oh, I didn't apply it, yes.
I've not been using
Cleaner as much lately.
It's kind of... It's like
sort of the dominant tool of
my career for a long time,
but it's getting so buggy these days,
it's kind of hard.
I wind up not using it as I used to here.
Well, I had applied, didn't I?
Maybe it was one of the
bugs I was talking about.
Yeah.
Setting default.
[Transcript missing]
1 to 0 is around.
OK, let's go to 10.
Dash goes pretty much there.
[Transcript missing]
You're going back to and making sure
it's going to look at further frames.
Because Cleaner and other
tools like Compressor only
give you a global setting.
Did you forget my crop box now?
You're just killing me here.
Oh, right.
We're not going to do 13 by 240 at all,
of course, because we're doing 60 by 9.
It's actually 320 by 180.
there.
Confuse myself by giving you a-- OK.
Right, that's for sure there.
And before and after here,
the A/B slider shows the
effects of image processing.
So, right there we're seeing the
effects of having thrown in
that brightness and contrasting.
You can see it's a little
bit darker overall.
Ideally,
if you're doing image processing,
it shouldn't feel like
you're modifying the video.
It should feel like you're kind of
peeling a layer of grime off it.
It's the effect you're trying to go for.
It shouldn't seem overly
dark and that kind of stuff.
So, before and after, too bad.
It's a little bit darker.
It gives a little more richness to it.
The original video had
kind of weird black levels.
All right.
Looks pretty good like that.
and then so I'm pretty happy as
image settings there and then
the audio side of it just do a.
"Normalized 90% and 90% in cleaners
about minus 3 dB are good to go.
And that's pretty much all we need to
do to do a preprocessing in cleaner.
So, did that look like what
you're talking about?
Any questions about
that or specifics there?
Alright, cool.
We got a question over there?
Yeah."
We are aware of the normalized
function in Cleaner.
We're also aware of it in Logic,
for example.
But we have a lot of video
coming in to Final Cut Pro,
and our users do not really know
how to handle normalization.
I'm getting some echo right there.
Can we get a little
closer to your microphone?
Yeah.
Are you aware of a plug-in available,
an audio plug-in for normalization
that we could plug into Final Cut Pro?
Hmm.
Because we have a lot of dirty
audio coming in and video,
and our users don't really know how
to handle normalization manually.
Hmm.
I can't imagine that someone
hasn't done one of those,
but I can't, off the top of my head,
name one.
Does anyone know of a normalized
plug-in for Final Cut?
Say that again?
Waves.
Oh, Waves.
Yeah, Waves.
But is it really a normalized plugin?
You know, like as simple as this?
Because Waves is usually too good.
Too many variables.
Yeah.
[Transcript missing]
Daniel Benner,
University of Texas What are
some best practices for importing
the video in Final Cut without
having to render all the time?
You've got SVHS tape.
It's pretty straightforward.
I'm in love with the AJA.io systems.
For a grand or so, they have a full one
that is SDI and analog.
You can buy a $1,000 one
that's small and analog.
You can get an AJA.io that will take
your S-video input and your XLR audio.
If you have a professional
or industrial SVHS deck,
like I've got an AJ555 Panasonic,
and that's a device controllable
XLR audio out SVHS deck.
Plug that straight into the AJA.
It'll put the firewire into
your Mac to run Final Cut,
and it will be able to
give you device control,
10-bit uncompressed capture,
balanced audio off your
SVHS tape into Final Cut.
And then, you know, just in a G5,
you'll have multiple real-time effects
on the G5 just in software from that
capture using the uncompressed codec.
Would it be bad to take the S-video
from a S-video deck and then go
into the back of a DV deck and then
capture it via firewire that way?
Yes.
Yeah.
Because the DV codec is only 25 megabits.
It uses only a very
limited 4:1:1 color space.
DV is a fine acquisition format.
I mean, if you're just like shooting
things in the world with DV,
it's fine.
But when you try to convert anything
to it that's already got analog noise
in it or if it's got motion graphics,
that kind of stuff,
the DV codec's really not robust enough
to be the second generation of anything.
So, I mean, yeah, if you do it,
it would work.
You'd get video out of it.
But the red I'm talking about gives
you a substantially higher quality.
And also, if you have a good VHS tape
and you have something with
a good time-based corrector,
and all those analog things which most
of us have unfortunately been able
to forget about come back into play,
right?
I mean, you spend a bundle on cables and
proc amps and all this kind of stuff.
But it's not too bad.
I mean, in the AJA system, actually,
I'm very pleased that it's like,
you know, a straightforward, cheap,
you can plug it into a laptop,
all that kind of stuff,
set up for doing that kind of work.
Does that convert it to DV?
No, it can if you want.
It can convert it to DV.
You can leave it as uncompressed,
8-bit or 10-bit.
It can convert to DV50,
convert it to DV25.
Whatever you want.
And motion JPEG, I assume.
Thanks.
Great.
Hey, Franois Nenoune-Machre, Capgemini.
I'm using a cleaner.
I've been using a cleaner
for a lot of time,
but I'm a bit concerned about its future.
Yeah.
What kind of product, equivalent product,
would you advise?
The two actively,
the products that have active engineering
on them for Mac encoding tools.
Obviously, Apple's got Compressor,
which I'm not sure if it's...
Compressor's pretty good for some stuff.
It's got some limitations.
It can't do like two-pass VBR with
Sorensen encoding and that kind of stuff.
As the 264 codec becomes dominant
in QuickTime over next year,
I would expect that Compressor will be
relatively more useful because it'll
have access to a codec that's a lot
more competitive than it does right now.
Sorensen Squeeze is a major,
major new version that's been announced.
It's been in beta.
It should be in a few months.
Squeeze 4,
pretty much a whole new tool really
aimed squarely at the cleaner space.
And Sorensen's working
hard to make that work.
And they've got 264, and they've got all
kinds of stuff in there.
And that should be,
that looks probably promising as well.
And a few months.
And there's Popwire's Compression Master.
That's out now.
It's really good.
It's mainly an MPEG-4 tool.
It can make great MPEG-4
inside .mov files and MPEG-4
files and also 3GPP files.
For doing 2Paths and
all that kind of stuff.
So if you want to use the MPEG-4
codec and almost any flavor of it,
Compression Master is my
favorite tool right now.
But if you want to make
really good .mov files,
Cleaner is still the
best thing out there.
It's got some unique
features only it has.
As far as being able to peak
data rate for 2Paths VBR.
It can automatically do an audio
sync fix for B-frame content,
that kind of stuff.
So I mean, I still use,
I expect as long as I need to
create legacy Cleaner content,
I mean legacy QuickTime content,
I'm going to keep on using
Cleaner for keeping around on
the hard drive for years to come.
Even though it seems unlikely at
this point they'll ever see any more
releases for it or even bug fixes.
I don't know.
I mean,
Discrete says they got some engineers
working on something related to Cleaner,
but they won't say what or
how or even which version of
it and that kind of stuff.
And the beta of 6.0.2 came
out almost a year ago.
And they haven't even like
released it for real yet.
It's still in beta for all this time.
So that's required for
Panther compatibility.
So we're talking about Tiger now,
so it's not a very good sign.
So, um... Yeah, so we're getting there.
I just had a comment about the VHS to DV.
There's also the early Sony decks
and things that have head-to-head
transfers from cableless and it has
TBC and some other things on it too.
So it actually does some
sweetening of the signal as well.
Yeah, so there are ways you
can make it work with DV.
Just the DV bitstream itself,
I don't... I mean,
if you're on a budget and you
just need the video in any form,
it can work.
But if what you care about
is really high quality,
that's a limitation.
So I actually got a project
here called VHS Ugly File,
which I decided like,
what is the worst nastiest
analog garbage you can imagine?
Which is hard.
I had some guys,
like a fourth generation EP mode VHS dub.
[Transcript missing]
I can talk a little bit about what
we can do to make this thing better,
which is not a whole lot.
[Transcript missing]
One thing about video that's
important to realize is that no
matter how bad the frames are,
the motion is always really good.
Even if it's a really bad,
horrible generation of SVHS thing.
So the thing you really
need to try to do it is,
when you have bad
quality video like this,
is make the frame size small
and keep the frame rate high.
Because you've got 60 fields
a second of motion here,
so make a 320x240 60 frame
a second video out of it.
Because that'll give you, you know,
you shrink it down a lot,
it'll help average out
some of that stuff.
So let me drop into After Effects and
I'll show you what you could possibly
do to make this interesting clip.
After Effects is overkill for
a lot of compression stuff,
but you need to do weird kind
of video processing stuff.
It's still kind of like
a Swiss Army Knife tool.
The new version is pretty good here.
It actually comes with the Synthetic
Aperture Color Finesse plugin,
which is kind of beyond preprocessing.
If you need to take stuff that was
shot badly and really clean it up,
it's a really wonderful plugin.
It's also available for Final Cut,
I believe.
They're not bundled.
Let's open up this horrible
piece of tripe here.
[Transcript missing]
Preserve edges, best quality only means
adaptability interlace.
So it's not a clear defined thing,
but if you are using A for preprocessing,
you definitely might have that turned on.
You also do 3-2 pull-down
removal in a very nasty UI here
where you have to guess it.
And 6-5 is better in the past,
but After Effects totally
cannot deal with any kind of
thing with a cadence break.
So you have a two-hour movie,
and there's like one field that's
off in order in the middle of it,
it can't do it versus tele-sending.
So, each, the entire clip you work with
has to have a perfectly straight
cadence throughout the entire thing.
You guessed it?
No, it doesn't have any.
Let's see if we can see
something like that.
So let's say I was going to make
a really small version of this.
I could just make a 640x480 timeline,
it's not a bad place to go.
[Transcript missing]
So when I've done that,
I'm actually able to produce an output
that's really all the way there.
So there are two ways you can handle
doing things in After Effects.
You can do it a full res in the comp,
and then you can do a nested comp
at the final output resolution or
set it on the output resolution.
It's often most informative
to actually make your comp the
size you want to have it at.
So if you're making a little
web video thing like that,
work it at the lower size.
You just need to go through and
obviously deal with the scale right.
And scaling in After Effects is
kind of weird because you
can't really crop per se.
You just kind of scale and position it
right to give you the crop you want.
So like, well, 50's not good enough.
I'll do 51.
Another thing about this clip is it's
got what's called tearing in VHS mode.
All this stuff at the bottom is
kind of not all to an angle here.
When you play it back
it just looks stupid.
When you're in VHS you want to crop
all that stuff out of the bottom.
So I'm going to zoom
in a little bit here.
So we'll just scroll down a little bit.
Pretty straightforward.
And we'll get something like that.
The feature that people don't
steal enough from After Effects is
the all-important levels filter.
This is probably the best
visual processing filter in
the history of humanity here,
because it gives you an integrated
histogram of black and white points.
So you have a video clip that's not all
the way to black or all the way to white.
You're actually able to
just see the histogram.
Like, okay, this clip here is full range.
It's not a problem.
But you can, okay, my mid-tone, you know,
like that, all that.
[Transcript missing]
But generally for kind
of video like this,
often the luxury gamma
can do you really good.
So just a little 1.1 in gamma.
is a little more presence.
It depends on the clip here.
So we've got what we can there.
Now, yeah,
there's really little you can do
on this to make it look any good.
But actually,
100% size there is scaled down.
It isn't that horrible.
It really isn't as horrible
as you could imagine.
I just got to do a little preview there.
And the one part you have is you do
have a lot of difference per frame
in terms of temporal noise there,
just because it varies
from frame to frame.
You can sometimes get some
better results by using,
you've got the pro version,
your remove grain filter,
some kinds of video noise you can
actually do a semi-decent job with.
I won't belabor you the incredibly
complex set of things you can do on it,
but...
You can see sort of inside
the preview box there,
you get a little bit,
little bit less effect there.
And you get tuned in more.
And where that really comes in is
because grain is random for every frame,
but using the grain suppression filters,
it's going to try to find errors
that are totally different frame
to frame and suppress those,
leaving what the actual
underlying motion is.
And again, it's not going to be perfect,
but it'll give you a little
bit better quality and take
out some of those errors there.
This session will give me a full
60 frames per second output.
So if you do have that old content
you're trying to put on the web,
emphasize the frame rate,
because you've got so much frame rate,
and just shrink it down to the
point where the artifacts kind
of disappear where you can.
But also, I mean, it's always going to be
garbage in and garbage out.
For a really bad source,
you could make it, again,
make it less bad, but even mediocrity is
typically out of reach.
Unless you're going to go in
and rotoscope the whole thing.
Treat it as a source to paint over,
effectively, is the only way to do
it in a lot of cases.
Okay, next question.
Is it up there?
Yeah, come to the microphone.
Hi, Ben.
It's Cliff Wooden here.
Just a quick question.
You mentioned MPEG-4 a couple of times,
but were you meaning MPEG-4 Part 2 there,
and specifically using
H.264 to refer to Part 10?
Yeah, so...
My parlance right now is I say MPEG-4,
I mean MPEG-4 Part 2,
and if I mean MPEG-4 Part 10,
I'll say 264.
That'll probably change over
time as kind of MPEG-4 becomes,
five years from now when we say MPEG-4,
we're going to mean 264.
Because Part 2 never really
got all that much traction,
so clearly the entire MPEG-4
industry is waiting for 264,
and that's going to be the
mainstream implementation of it,
because it's just so much better.
But today, QuickTime is only Part 2,
Part 2 simple.
So that's what we're
using for stuff right now.
I didn't get the fields right there.
Let me turn this off.
Because it's distracting when I play
back video when I'm trying to talk.
Yeah, the real... Now,
one thing to bear in mind
is that the... Personally,
Apple people,
QuickTime's built-in MPEG-4 encoder is,
to put it charitably,
more speed-optimized
than quality-optimized.
So, even if you want to make a .mp4
file or .mov file with MPEG-4 codec,
there are other tools like Squeeze and
Compression Master that will give
you a lot better quality at lower
bit rates than Apple's encoder.
So, even if people have had
kind of a... questions about
MPEG-4's compression quality,
there are other tools making
compatible bitstream that
can give you better results.
Both Squeeze and Compression
Master have a two-pass encoding mode.
You can tell it to go really
slow and really high quality,
while the QuickTime encoder
is really tuned to just,
like, you know,
massive action in real-time,
real-time broadcast kind of applications,
and it works great for that.
But it doesn't have a
slow and sweet mode,
which some third-party products do.
So, you can make a QuickTime-compatible
MPEG-4 file with a lot better
quality than a lot of the stuff
we see out there right now.
You just use the Apple exporter.
Okay, who's next?
Someone's got someone.
I'll just have to do
some demos otherwise.
Anyone want to see some stuff
in Compressor or other stuff?
Oh, here we go.
Can you show an example of
using a mask to do some specific
compression where you're masking out?
A mask?
Give me an example.
Yeah,
maybe I'm not saying that correctly.
But to soften a portion of the image
field and compress it differently.
That almost winds up,
it's almost never worth it in the end.
Because you're trying to do compression,
you have multiple frames,
you have an acycle image.
I mean,
you can use motion tracking to like,
yeah,
I honestly haven't had a case of a video
where that was worth doing for years.
Because typically,
any kind of error in it
is going to be overall.
I mean, let me think.
Sometimes I'll do per frame processing.
But I'm actually doing a masking for it.
A good example might be if you had a
video of a talking head and they shot
it against a moving background like
leaves blowing in the wind or something.
Oh, it's a constant shot.
You might use After Effects to
mask the person out and blur the
background so it looked like it had a
shallower depth of field or something.
Yeah, I mean, you do that like you would
do an After Effects play.
Well, actually, with After Effects,
I mean, I did have a case last year
where I was doing this high
def project where I needed to,
where it actually was a damaged D5 tape.
So there were some,
they actually would have
macro block errors sometimes.
I don't like the, so like,
you'd have like a 16 by 16 block of
the frame where the video wasn't,
you know,
We're basically the only one
field to be intact kind of stuff.
And actually,
the 6.5 actually goes into rotoscope.
So, I mean,
you can go in and hand paint and use the
Clone Stamp tool on a per frame basis.
And it's surprisingly powerful.
I mean, like, 6.5 on a dual G5.
I mean, you can do really good real-time
rotoscoping kind of stuff with it.
So, that's definitely in there, I'm sure.
I use 5% of After Effects a lot,
so I don't really do much mask stuff.
I have a question.
I was wondering if you
could pontificate on this.
As content creators transition
to using HD and much higher
quality cameras and acquisition,
like the Vericam working in
24 progressive square pixels,
giving us much higher quality
content to start with,
will we be out of a job?
Preprocessing in HD is much easier
than the standard definition.
Because HD is always analog,
I mean sorry, always digital.
Analog is half the problem with
preprocessing and non-square
pixels is a big issue as well.
And DV is almost always
square pixel digital,
which makes it a lot easier.
But you still get some complexities.
You know,
there's converting from 720 to 1080.
Computer playback.
I mean,
everyone who's showing off high-def
computer-based playback today,
it's all 24p.
So if you have 60i source,
typically you have to get
converted or something like that.
Today's codecs don't do a great job.
Computer codecs don't do a great
job with interlaced content.
MPEG-2 will work,
but it takes a pretty beefy machine
to do real-time MPEG-2 deinterlacing
on computer screens to 60p playback,
and it's a nightmare.
So it's still a fair amount
you need to do with it.
Often, sometimes you get a little
bit of letterboxing,
you know,
if it's more than 60 by 9 aspect ratio.
It's just occurred to me that the
difference between what a less
experienced user might get from
compressing a really high-quality
source from HD down to web-based.
With, you know,
default settings in some of these tools
versus what we might be able to get,
that difference is much less
with much higher quality source.
Yeah, there are subtleties.
There's also HD and SD use
different color spaces.
Bear in mind.
So HD uses the 709 color space,
and SD and almost all
computer playback uses 601.
So you actually have to do a transform
in there to get the colors to come
out matching perfectly accurately.
And it's handled transparently
in a lot of tools,
but not always.
You have to get that right as an issue.
Another thing that happens is
typically you are going to,
a lot of HD for computer play
gets compressed horizontally.
So you encode at 1440 by 1080,
just to make it a
little bit easier to do,
and some stuff going on there.
But yeah, I mean,
HD is massively easier to compress
than standard def in the real world.
You just need a lot more computer for it,
but, you know,
that's coming along as well.
But yeah, I mean, it's amazing to me.
The part is,
I only work on hard stuff pretty much,
but I mean, so I've had some HD projects
require a lot of pre-processing,
but kind of in general, yeah,
you just kind of like drag it
in and say go when you're done.
It's, it's,
it is almost always progressive,
and it is almost always full frame and
square pixel and all that kind of stuff.